Hello, I'm Sangsoo Jeong.
This chapter, before actually drawing a character concept art, let's briefly plan the design, talk about how to gather references, then proceed to the sketch.
We need to decide what to draw before we draw.
If it's company work or an outsourced job, you'd receive a document.
Sometimes there's a detailed setting and story that'd remind you of a character from a grand novel, and other times they just toss you a few simple keyword words.
Even preparing a game key art portfolio and simply deciding which character to draw can be considered part of character planning.
If you're vaguely wondering what to draw, this process will help.
What's contained in a character planning document?
Let me imagine a very simple document.
Usually, we assume drawing a character concept key art.
Since this class only deals with humans, let's assume drawing a human.
You'd be divided into male and female.
And the age group would be written, and the occupation would be written.
And the era would be written.
What era they lived in, what class they were, how they were living.
Really simple, right?
Surprisingly, sometimes you don't even get a document like this.
With a document like this, you get lost as to what on earth to draw.
So we need to expand this short planning.
Let me see how to go about it.
When I worked at a company, I usually received brief instructions before work.
For example, this picture was drawn on the instruction to draw a wild warrior character with a sense of weight.
And this picture was drawn on the instruction to draw a filler with the keyword of a medieval nun, contrasting with the warrior.
Both of these works were drawn when I was a twenty-six year old, three-year veteran, still a novice.
I remember going through a lot of trial and error, working clumsily.
I'm going to use that as an example.
It's not a planning document, it's a sentence.
I had my own ideas, changing the planning sentence of this picture.
Since the motif is a nun, religious coloring shows through, but using a real religion is sensitive, so that won't work.
Since it's a nun concept, let me draw it all black.
It's a filler, so it'll be holding a staff.
Thinking of religious items here, I thought of intricately crafted accessories or a staff, and so on.
Since I drew it with only fragmented ideas, without considering that I was drawing a game character, I remember making a huge number of corrections as I drew.
There are various elements to consider when drawing, but since this work, I've been picking out the silhouette.
Why is that?
While working as usual, there was something the producer requested importantly, and that was the variance between characters.
Another thing was.
That it should be clearly visible when the characters are scaled down small in the game.
So since the warrior character was overall dark, I changed the healer character, which was also overall black, to white.
And to make it visible within the game, it wears a cape.
In game concept art, the contrast between characters is extremely important.
Many of you play mobile games, right?
Because characters are crammed into a small screen, for distinction, the variance between jobs needs to be strongly felt.
And it needs to be visible.
Among the elements that can clearly distinguish the individuality of characters within a small screen are silhouette, value, and hue.
Among these, the one that catches the eye the most is the silhouette.
Simply put, you need an effective big mass.
Because of that, when I work on character design now, I put the character's variance, that is, the silhouette focused on big masses, as the top priority.
I said you have to start big and finish fine.
A silhouette set in a big outline sparks a variety of inspirations.
That's why I do simplified sketches focused on the silhouette.
I'm not talking about the silhouette of a human body, or anything like that.
Let me give an example.
This warrior character shows overall a massive quality that goes beyond the category of human.
That worked effectively in the game too, allowing it to appear as a sturdy tank-type warrior character.
This healer character was drawn with a glamorous body overall, but honestly, at this level it doesn't show effectively in the game.
So I added a cape to create volume.
For this ranged dealer character, which has a relatively slim and normal body type, where did the silhouette come from?
First, I equipped thick protective gear on the legs to reinforce the silhouette.
But that wasn't enough.
I was able to bring out the mass with a huge gatling gun.
Is it enough to just add mass mindlessly?
How should you add mass?
Just as contrast between characters is important, contrast within a character is important too.
My colleagues and I would call it concentrate and release.
It's a good phrase to keep in mind when designing.
For details too, concentrate where you should concentrate, and naturally release the rest.
Likewise, for the silhouette, concentrate where you should, and release the rest.
Shall we look at an example of concentrating and releasing in the silhouette?
The warrior character has a body where a relatively massive upper body stands out.
Because of that, the lower body got a silhouette only enough to naturally support that upper body.
The filler is the same.
Since the cape takes care of the mass, I made the body fitted.
The ranged dealer character also has the weapon taking care of the mass, so the body.
The body could be relatively fitted.
It's good to do this kind of variance from the planning stage.
Next, the thing to think about is keywords.
If I briefly organize the necessary contents of a planning document, it comes together like this.
Gender, age, class, era, value, hue, silhouette, body type, what to concentrate on, and keywords.
For personal work, it'd be fun to add a brief background story or the character's personality.
And the work instruction for this healer concept art can be organized like this.
It was an instruction to draw a woman.
And I set the age arbitrarily.
Because it was an instruction to draw a healer.
And it was a game with a medieval fantasy setting.
It had the keyword of a nun.
How can you fill in the remaining blanks?
Usually, when you receive a planning document at a company, or get a verbal design request, they often give you settings from which you can infer the keyword.
For example, like this picture, draw a healer with a nun concept, or put armor on a rose concept, and so on.
Sometimes they give even more detailed settings.
Like, in the beginning there were a god race and a demon race, and so on and so on. We have to use this keyword and branch out in various ways to design.
It's called drawing a mind map.
Taking various words derived from the keyword as motifs.
If you design that way, the design will be more consistent and convincing.
You don't need to over-branch.
Just as when we draw pictures or design, we establish a big frame then do detailed work, a big keyword and a few elements to support it are enough.
Let me draw a mind map and establish the direction of the design.
Freely write down related words, like spreading branches.
Sometimes you form the design in your head.
Or search the keyword on Google or Pinterest to get inspiration.
The simpler the keywords, the better.
I pursue simple designs.
If the keywords are simple, the design is simple too.
For example, this healer picture started with the keyword nun, and through a mind map a few supporting keywords were drawn out, and working with those allowed the design to take concrete form.
Let me add these keywords to the planning too.
This blue part is the planning added through the mind map.
Nothing special, right?
That's good.
The design can become simpler.
Like this, by drawing out keywords through a mind map and going into work, the design becomes more organized and you can reach a quicker conclusion.
It's also easier to find references.
By varying the supporting keywords, you can also pull out various options.
With this method, in later chapters, we'll plan the game concept art options.
This time, I want to draw a character with a futuristic design, based on a healer style that was popular among my drawings.
Like this healer character, it'll likely be a character wearing a cape or coat.
I want to do a clean design without any disorder.
First, I'll draw a woman.
The reason is simple.
Because more than half of consumers prefer female characters, and more than half of my classmates probably prefer watching a female character being drawn.
I say this many times, but we have to remember we're doing commercial art.
For age, likewise, I'll draw a young woman.
Around twenty to thirtyish.
Because it's what consumers prefer, and it's less boring when it's refreshing.
For occupation, I'll go with the magic class.
This is my taste.
When I play games, I mainly play magic-class characters.
Especially, I prefer games with big, beautiful meteors.
For the era, let me go with a futuristic fantasy setting.
I want to try an era I haven't drawn much, and colors I haven't used much.
So for the use and hue, since it's a bright futuristic setting, I'll base it on a blue tone, per my own judgment.
For the silhouette, likewise.
I plan to bring it out with a cape or coat.
For the keyword, as I said, a clean and simple design.
For the supporting keywords, as a result of going through a mind map, we set them to polygons, transparency, and light.
Let's start working with this planning.
This way, by drawing up a brief planning and going into the work, the references to find are specified, quick envisioning is possible, and you can draw the picture systematically.
Especially the silhouette and hue keywords will be the key points of the design.
This time, we had a time to make our own brief planning for a character concept.
Next time, let's talk about how to gather and use references based on the planning.
